The secret to going [music] viral every single time on Instagram is by creating share worthy content. The algorithm changes literally every single day, but for the last few years there has been one top dog metric, one best form of engagement that has been the best indicator or predictor of a post virality, and that is the number of shares that the post gets. First thing that the algorithm checks is your post skip rate, or basically are people actually hooked and going to be watching the video. But then once it crosses that threshold, the algorithm is looking at two main indicators, the number of likes and the number of shares. If your post is getting a high amount of likes, then your post will be pushed out to more of your existing followers. If however, your post is getting a lot more shares, it's getting a high share rate, then your post will be pushed out to more non followers, and that's how you go viral. In fact, according to a recent InstaClubHub study, getting one additional comment on your post will equate to about 15 extra views. Getting one save will equate to about 45 extra views. Getting one like will equal about 75 extra views, and getting just one share on your post on average will equate to about 150 extra views, with some people getting 300 to 450 extra views per share. Shares are powerful and they're what Instagram has optimized for because Instagram has figured out that friends and family and the average Instagram user isn't posting things on their feed anymore. So instead, they're engaging with Instagram and they're hooked on Instagram because of what's going on in the direct messages. So if you can create a post that is worthy of being sent from one person to another via direct message, via text message, or via any other method, then Instagram will reward you for doing so. And of course, if your post is being sent from one person to another, that recipient is also going to become a viewer. And probably best of all, and the last thing I'll say before we get into the actual tips and ideas for how you can create share worthy viral content is that the recipient, the person who's actually getting the post sent to them, is arguably the best possible viewer. Because it's not a viewer that the algorithm predicts would like your post, it is a viewer who another viewer knows would like your post. For example, I see posts all the time where I'm like, "I'm not that interested. That's not that great." The algorithm is constantly showing me things that I'm not all that into. It's experimenting. But my wife also sends me posts all day, and every single post that my wife sends me gets watched because it better, because she's going to ask me if I watched or not, and B, she knows me. She knows me better than the algorithm, and she is going to send me posts that are funnier, more relatable, posts from people who I'm more likely to follow and become customers of than the algorithm ever could. And so with that being said, I've come up with an acronym to help you remember what is share-worthy, and then I'm going to give you some examples of what share-worthy content actually looks like in practice. And the acronym is going to be very easy to remember because it is literally share, s h a r e, where the s stands for simple. The more simple your posts can be, the more share-worthy they will be also. And by simple, I mean use simpler language, use dumbed-down vocab, use phrases and expressions that are easier to understand. I oftentimes talk about the drunk grandma rule, which is an old rule for marketing that is if your marketing wouldn't make sense to a drunk grandma, then it's probably too complex. Similarly, with your posts, if you're trying to create a viral share-worthy post, then your goal should be to make it so simple and easy to understand that even a grandma who's had a few glasses of wine could understand what the post was about. Here's an example of one of my most simple posts that is super share-worthy. Post everything three times. If you posted a reel more than 60 days ago, post it again today. And 60 days from now, post it a third time. Whether it went viral or it flopped, I don't care. Most of your followers probably didn't see it, and the few who did don't remember. So stop making new posts, stop looking for new ideas, and stop spending hours editing. You've already done the work, so post it again. Thank you for coming to my brock talk. That post was originally posted in October of 2025 and when I did, I received 2.5 million views and 60,000 shares. And then I posted again a few months later and I got 30,000 shares and 1.5 million views. That means in total combined across these two posts, this reel has received about 4 million views and about 100,000 shares. And I believe it was so effective because that hook was simple. It was three words and it kind of caught you off guard. Those are some things we're going to talk about a little bit later. Speaking of, later is right now. The hook. The H in the acronym stands for hook. A share-worthy post has to have a strong hook. Like I talked about earlier, the first metric that the algorithm checks is skip rate. And obviously, people aren't going to share your post if they aren't first stopping to at least watch your post. And you don't have to have them watch the entire thing. If you do, that's great. But they have to at least make it through the first few seconds or at least make it through the first one to two slides of your carousel. Here's an example of one of my most viral and most share-worthy reels and I think it's due in large part to the simple hook. More cuts equals more engagement. We all know that the human attention span is short, but on Instagram, it's super short. So I recommend having some sort of cut in your video every two seconds. And I know that might sound way too quick, but that's actually the rule that almost every TV show and movie sticks to. So by simply recording a new clip, changing your camera angle, or zooming in, you'll be able to hold people's attention for longer and increase your engagement. Save this post if you just learned something new and give this a try in your next video. That post has also been posted numerous times. The first time I posted it, I believe it got like 2 million something views. The most recent time that I posted it, it got 400,000 views and 20,000 shares. And the keys to a good share-worthy hook is that generally speaking, it's between 5 to 12 words long. It uses simple language. It uses negative words if possible, words like don't, stop, avoid, stay away from. And it has a visual that's very easy to see and thus easy to understand. The A in the acronym stands for authentic. Now, the secret to being authentic is to just be yourself. No, that's horrible advice. The secret to being authentic is reducing the time between idea and execution. Basically, the less time that you can spend editing and refining and perfecting and filtering and ChatGPTing your post, the more authentic it will be, usually. Authentic posts are also the posts that say what that little voice in your head is saying. That little voice that no one else is acknowledging, that you've been feeling, that's been growing louder and louder, that usually no one says out loud. When you post the quiet part out loud, people are like, "Yes, finally someone was authentic enough to say it." And so, even though they're not authentic or vulnerable enough to say it themselves, they'll take your post and they'll share it because it's a way that they can kind of say like, "Yeah, me too. I believe in this. I want to amplify this message. I think this way." Without having to be so bold as to say it themselves. And here's an example of one of my most authentic posts. Friendly reminder that most of what you're seeing on social media is fake. This mic isn't plugged in. This is a canvas, not a bookshelf. And I'm not in a fancy office, I'm in a closet. That post, every time I posted and every time I updated it each year, received millions of views. The most recent time that I posted it, it received 2 million views and over 40,000 shares. Back in 2016, when I started my first real online business, I remember that my head was filled with so many what ifs. What if no one buys this? What if I'm an impostor? What if there's no market? What if I can't sell? What if, what if, what if? What if this is all just a big waste of time and I'm just banging my head against the wall? But what I wish someone told me back then is, just like you can imagine all the negative what ifs, there are just as many, if not more, positive what ifs. What if this works out? What if this is my breakthrough? What if this is what sets me financially free? And thanks to one of today's sponsors, Shopify, it's easier than ever to turn those positive what-ifs into reality. Shopify is the e-commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world, and it now represents about 10% of the entire e-commerce market in the US. From some of the most famous and well-known brands in the world like Gymshark to solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered. Shopify helps you get the word out about your e-commerce business as if you had an entire marketing team behind you. It easily helps you create email and social campaigns so that you can attract customers wherever they're scrolling. And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has 24/7 round-the-clock award-winning customer support. That way, you can tackle the important tasks from inventory to payments to analytics all in one place. No need to bookmark multiple websites and sign up for multiple tools. You can do it all in Shopify. It makes your life easier and it makes your business operations run smoother. It's time to turn those what-ifs into with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1 per month trial at shopify.com/tribe. Go to shopify.com/tribe. That's s h o p i f dot com forward slash t r i b e. The next letter in the acronym is r for relatability. And relatability comes from specificity. What I mean by that is that oftentimes as business owners and content creators, we think that if we kind of water down our experiences or we kind of make the the memes or the titles or the nuances of our posts more vague, that more people will understand them. And what I want you to understand here is that there's a difference between simple and easy to understand versus broad and vague and watered down. I still want you to use easy-to-understand language, but I want you to describe specific circumstances and specific occurrences because the more specific you can be, the more relatable your posts will be. If you're like, I like vanilla ice cream, everyone can kind of relate to that because not many people hate it, but also not many people love vanilla ice cream. So, sure, a lot of people could be like, "Yeah, I like it." But, no one's going to feel that strongly. If instead you're like, "I love vanilla bean ice cream with cookie dough swirls when you're on a summer day and it's 93° at 6:00 p.m. and you're eating it in the car with the windows down while blasting Taylor Swift." That's something that's super specific. And even though there are very few people or probably less people, right, who have experienced that exact thing, they can relate to pieces of it. They can relate to certain moments of that, and that is what makes the post more share-worthy. And here's an example. What? What is this? What What are we doing? What in God's name are we doing? &gt;&gt; What? Our lives. &gt;&gt; What What kind of lives are these? That post received 11.6 million views and over 200,000 shares the last time I posted it. And then finally, the E in the acronym does not stand for educational content. Purely educational content is rarely share-worthy. The only time where educational content is share-worthy is if it's really profound education or education teaching something that is like totally contrary to the norm. We're going to talk more about some of these things in just a minute, but what the E actually stands for is entertaining. So, educational content can go viral and it can be share-worthy, but if and only if it is entertaining. And so, the example that I'm about to play for you is both. It is educational, and there is plenty that you can learn from it, but because of its format, specifically what I call my triplets format, it is entertaining as well. And this post received over 800,000 views and 17,000 shares the last time I posted it. &gt;&gt; I post 7-second Reels. I post 7-to-15-second Reels. I stick to the mini skirt rule. I don't really post carousels, but if I do, they're square. &gt;&gt; I post 4 by 5 carousels. &gt;&gt; I post 3 by 4 carousels. &gt;&gt; I only post trending audio reels. &gt;&gt; I only post talking head reels. &gt;&gt; I post both. &gt;&gt; I post when I have the time to make one. &gt;&gt; I create and post every single day. &gt;&gt; I post every day, but I only create a few times per week. &gt;&gt; I tell people to click the link in my bio. &gt;&gt; I use DM automation. &gt;&gt; I use both. &gt;&gt; I liked this reel. &gt;&gt; I saved this reel. &gt;&gt; I shared this reel. &gt;&gt; And I do want to note that that is the least viewed reel and the least shared reel of all of the posts that I've told you about so far, and I think it makes sense. That post isn't funny, it's not relatable, it's not super authentic, it doesn't have a super strong hook, and it is quite educational. Now, it is the entertainment factor that made up for it and made that post still quite share-worthy, but you can see how as soon as I start to add in more educational pieces, the share-worthiness decreases. So, those essential ingredients for what makes a post share-worthy. With that being said, let's talk about what share-worthy posts actually look like besides the examples I've shown you so far. Share-worthy posts are often motivational or inspirational content. These are quotes, affirmations, reminders, Bible verses, things like that that really make an impact and make people stop and pause and go, "Wow, that I needed to hear that today." And one quick overarching tip that doesn't just pertain to motivational inspirational content, but really any share-worthy post you make or really any post you make period is that value matters more than vanity. So, the actual message that you're sharing, the actual inspirational quote or whatever that you're actually posting is so much more important than how aesthetically pleasing it is or what fonts you use or what color background you use. And one of my favorite examples of this is one of our students, Meredith Van Ness, who is a therapist with over 200,000 followers on Instagram, and she's crushing it using our InstaClubHub method, and you'll see her posts are quite simple. Often times just a white background with a plain black font on top with some sort of motivational or inspirational method. If you want to learn more about the Insta Club Hub, I will put the link down in the show notes below to join our 2-week trial for just $7 and get full access to the entire club. But besides Meredith, here is one of my most viral posts that I have recently made that is very inspirational and uses a Childish Gambino quote. This post got over 35,000 shares and 5.2 million views the last time I posted it, but the time before that it also got a few million views as well. Another quick tip that I wanted to mention is that all of your share-worthy posts, like pretty much anything that you post to your feed on Instagram, should be related to your niche. So sure, this is a Childish Gambino quote, but it's a Childish Gambino quote that very much applies and makes sense to my followers who are small business owners and brands who are trying to grow on Instagram. I wouldn't, for example, use a David Goggins quote about running ultramarathons because my followers aren't into that sort of thing. Number two, share-worthy content also looks like community-oriented posts or what I used to call call to arms posts. These are the kinds of posts that kind of rally the community together, and they say, "Hey, we're all in this together. Let's all pitch in for this good cause, or let's all spread the word about this important thing, or let's raise awareness for whatever." The most viral example of this all time is also one of the most viral trends in the history of the internet that existed long before TikTok and the Instagram algorithm that we know today, and that is the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge. The ALS Ice Bucket Challenge went so viral not just because it had a very easy to understand and simple motive, and not just because it was visually engaging to watch people dump buckets of ice on their head, but because an integral part of that challenge was to tag three people or to nominate three friends to also post their own version of the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge. And so these call to arms style posts are the posts that are often the hardest to come up with and because of that they're often the posts that you will post the least frequently. You're not going to be posting a call to arms, let's raise awareness, let's raise funds post every single day. But if you do one of these maybe once a month or even a few times a quarter, you can really hit it big because when these posts hit, they catch on like wildfire. Here's a recent example of a call to arms reel that I posted of myself just holding up a cardboard sign with one of these public service announcements on it and you can definitely steal this idea. You can steal any idea that I've shared with you in this episode. Just write a public service announcement or a call to arms or some sort of rallying cry if you will on a cardboard sign, hold it up in the busy street and film a quick video of yourself doing that, post that on Instagram and that will be a very share-worthy post. I posted this just a week ago at the time of recording this and it has already received over 3,000 shares and over 300,000 views. My personal motto when it comes to money is simple, slow and steady wins the race. Small consistent investments generally beat trying to time the market with big moves and that's why I am so fired up to introduce you to today's sponsor, Wealthfront. Wealthfront helps you tune out the noise and earn more on every dollar with a high yield cash account and sophisticated yet easy to use investment products that keep your money working for you so that you can focus on what only you can control. And the Wealthfront cash account offers you access to a 4.30% variable APY on your uninvested cash for a limited time. It also has zero monthly fees and cash categories that let you easily bucket money into savings goals within one cash account. That way all of your money management is in one place and Wealthfront has allowed me to give you a special offer that isn't available to the general public. You start with a 3.30% base APY from program banks. New cash account clients can get a build your tribe exclusive 0.75% APY boost for your first 3 months on up to a $150,000 balance. Then, you can add another 0.25% APY increase, no expiration date or balance limit, just by enabling a $1,000 a month direct deposit and maintaining a funded investment account, bringing the total APY to an impressive 4.30% Join the 1 million plus people who are already building long-term wealth with confidence. Start earning up to 4.30% variable APY today by heading to wealthfront.com/byt. Terms and conditions apply. This has been a paid testimonial from a current client of Wealthfront, which creates a conflict of interest. Client experiences will vary. Wealthfront brokerage is not a bank. The base APY is as of January 30th, 2026 and is subject to change. For more information, please see the episode description. Number three, share-worthy content looks like relatable content and specifically relatable humor. Usually, these are memes or self-deprecating humor or short skits that are funny and make people laugh. And people love sharing these kinds of posts because number one, it says something about them and number two, it makes them look funny because they're like, "Hey, this was so good. This showed up on my feed. I'm going to show it to more people." And they kind of get the credit for like retelling the joke. This meme that I posted about a year ago about saying thank you to ChatGPT went absolutely bonkers and ended up receiving 50,000 shares and over 8 million views. And then this meme that I posted just about 2 months ago has already received 20,000 shares and over 2 million views. The fourth kind of share-worthy content is controversial content. Now, I am not encouraging you to get canceled or to say anything defamatory or start cussing people out or anything like that. And I do want to warn you that you need to know yourself. You need to know how thick your skin is. If you're someone who really can't handle even just one negative comment, then stay away from controversial content. But if you're someone who really feeds off that stuff, or you've got a great head on your shoulders, and you just don't care if people troll and say mean things about you on the internet, then maybe this content is going to be more up your alley. But, the bottom line with controversial content is that I'm not encouraging you to attack others. What I am encouraging you to do is to post your unpopular opinions, or to speak up about the things that other people won't, or to say that you disagree with whatever the popular strategy, or the popular trend, or whatever is popular right now. Because when you disagree, you allow the people who are also silently disagreeing to amplify your message by sharing it. It's a way that they can say like, "Yeah, I believe in this. I agree." without having to be so bold as to say it themselves. And me myself, I am not a very controversial person. I try to stay away from all sorts of controversy and all that negative energy online, but still sometimes there are myths that I'm going to bust, or there are unpopular opinions, or there's strategies that are maybe going viral, and I'm like, "Hey, I don't think you should do that. I don't think that's very smart." And so, by posting about those things, it becomes more share-worthy. One example of controversial content that is quite easy for me to post about is whenever there's negative news regarding Instagram. Whenever Instagram rolls out a new feature that people are mad about, or whenever Instagram makes a change that upsets people, that is controversial news. Now, I'm not the source of the controversy, I'm just reporting on the controversy, but that makes it share-worthy. And we're going to come back to newsworthy content in just a second. But, this post right here got over 60,000 shares and almost 3 million views. And then this post got 36,000 shares and 2 million views. I told you we'd get to it, and here we are, coming right back. The fifth and final way that share-worthy posts often look, or present themselves, is timely content. Now, timely content isn't just news. It can be news. It can be, "Hey, there's breaking news in your niche. There's some big change. There's some big headline story." and you're going to report on that. But, it can also be you adding your own commentary, or your own opinion, or your own two cents on the news. If there's something that everyone is talking about, maybe you're not going to be the first person to break the news, but you can add your own two cents or you can add your own opinion or commentary that's different than what everyone else is saying. And then the final example of timely content is trending content or content that is going on in pop culture. For example, if there's like a big show that everyone's obsessed with on Netflix, if you take that show or a sound bite from that show or a meme from that show and relate it back to your niche on Instagram, that is very timely. If you make a post that is relating to the seasons or the holidays, that can be very timely as well. For example, here's one of my most shared posts of all time that was posted this past October, right before Halloween, and it got over 170,000 shares and from that amassed over 3 million views. It's relating to my niche, but it's also relating to the bigger sense of what's going on in the world, which was that it was about to be Halloween. And then this post, of course, is just an example of breaking the news and this post received 70,000 shares and 8.2 million views. And with all of this being said, two big things that a lot of people miss when it comes to share-worthy content is that number one, success leaves clues. So, if at the end of this episode, you're swimming a little bit and you're like, wait, what do I even post now? What is going to be share-worthy? How do I fit this into my account? I want you to go back through this episode and take screenshots or write down any of the posts that I made and recreate your own version fitting it into your own niche. Success leaves clues. So, study the most shared and the most viral content in your niche to see what is working for people who do what you do. And also, share what is going viral outside of your niche because then you have a unique opportunity where you can take, let's say, something that's going viral in the fitness world and make your own, let's say, baking content that is kind of a similar format, but it's going to be very share-worthy because it's using a proven concept. And then maybe the most no-brainer thing that so so people miss is ask for the share. Tell people to share your post. Don't just make a share-worthy post and then cross your fingers and pray to Adam Mosseri and hope that people share and then it goes viral. Tell people share this post if you relate. [music] Send this to a friend who needs to hear it. Help spread this news. Tell people to share and they will be more likely to do so. Thank you so much for watching. Don't forget to hit that subscribe button and as always, happy networking.